CoC transparency report 2022 (#460)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2023-01-06-transparency2022/index.md

---
slug: "transparency2022"
title: rOpenSci 2022 Code of Conduct Transparency Report
author:
  - Yanina Bellini Saibene
  - Mark Padgham
  - Kara Woo
date: 2023-01-06
tags:
  - community
  - code of conduct
  - governance
description: rOpenSci 2022 Code of Conduct Transparency Report
---

> The rOpenSci community is supported by our [Code of Conduct](https://ropensci.org/code-of-conduct) with a clear description of unacceptable behaviors, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rOpenSci community is supported by our [Code of Conduct](/code-of-conduct) with a clear description of unacceptable behaviors, 
```

instructions on how to make a report, and information on how reports are handled. We, the Code of Conduct Committee, 
are responsible for receiving, investigating, deciding, enforcing and reporting on all reports of potential 
violations of our Code. We are committed to transparency with our community while upholding the privacy 
of people who experience or report incidents.

In 2022, we received one Code of Conduct incident report. 

> ### Summary of Reported Incidents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Summary of reported incident
```

> * _Description of the incident:_ During a package review process, a reviewer became extremely negative on a public 
> channel and posted messages publicly shaming the package's authors with non-constructive feedback and comments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _Description of the incident:_ During a package review process, a reviewer was extremely negative on a public 
channel and posted messages publicly shaming the package's authors with non-constructive feedback and comments.
```

* _Unacceptable behavior:_ public shaming and not complying with "be considerate in speech and actions."
* _Community space:_ GitHub

> * _Actions:_  We follow our protocols to investigate the incident and inform the reported and reporter of our decision and the outcome. 
> We reinforce on the communication that such comments are not acceptable under our CoC. We also changed the 
> text of the CoC to include more examples from online spaces and suggested a change in the review guide to be 
> more explicit about non-constructive feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _Actions:_  We followed our protocols to investigate the incident and informed the reported and reporter of our decision and the outcome. 
We reinforced in communications that such comments are not acceptable under our CoC. We also changed the 
text of the CoC to include more examples from online spaces and suggested a change in the review guide to be 
more explicit about non-constructive feedback.
```

> * _Observations:_ the reporter expressed that the reported person apologizes and doesn't require further actions. 
> The reporter also suggested changes to the review guide and the CoC, that we have taken into account through changes described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _Observations:_ the reporter relayed that the reported apologized and that they do not require further actions. 
The reporter also suggested changes to the review guide and the CoC, which we have taken into account through changes described above.
```

> This code of conduct belongs to the community. We welcome your feedback at any time by emailing conduct at ropensci.org.

Reviewer: See my rational for why in the CoC update
```suggestion
This code of conduct belongs to the community. We welcome your feedback at any time by emailing <conduct@ropensci.org>.
```
